docs: add documentation for all secure acl introduction work (#5640)
hashicorp/consul: website/source/api/acl/auth-methods.html.md

---
layout: api
page_title: ACL Auth Methods - HTTP API
sidebar_current: api-acl-auth-methods
description: |-
  The /acl/auth-method endpoints manage Consul's ACL Auth Methods.
---

> -> **1.5.0+:**  The APIs are available in Consul versions 1.5.0 and later.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-> **1.5.0+:**  The auth method APIs are available in Consul versions 1.5.0 and newer.
```

# ACL Auth Method HTTP API

The `/acl/auth-method` endpoints [create](#create-an-auth-method),
[read](#read-an-auth-method), [update](#update-an-auth-method),
[list](#list-auth-methods) and [delete](#delete-an-auth-method)

> ACL auth methods in Consul.  For more information about ACLs, please see

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ACL auth methods in Consul.  For more information on how to setup ACLs, please see
```

> the [ACL Guide](/docs/guides/acl.html).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the [ACL Guide](https://learn.hashicorp.com/consul/advanced/day-1-operations/production-acls).
```

> the [ACL Guide](/docs/guides/acl.html).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the [ACL Guide](https://learn.hashicorp.com/consul/advanced/day-1-operations/production-acls).
```

## Create an Auth Method

This endpoint creates a new ACL auth method.

| Method | Path                         | Produces                   |
| ------ | ---------------------------- | -------------------------- |
| `PUT`  | `/acl/auth-method`           | `application/json`         |

The table below shows this endpoint's support for

> [blocking queries](/api/index.html#blocking-queries),

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[blocking queries](/api/features/blocking.html),
```

> [consistency modes](/api/index.html#consistency-modes),

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[consistency modes](/api/features/consistency.html),
```

> [agent caching](/api/index.html#agent-caching), and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[agent caching](/api/features/caching.html), and
```

> [required ACLs](/api/index.html#acls).

Reviewer: needs to be updated

Author: Where should the `#acls` anchor tag point now?

| Blocking Queries | Consistency Modes | Agent Caching | ACL Required |
| ---------------- | ----------------- | ------------- | ------------ |
| `NO`             | `none`            | `none`        | `acl:write`  |

### Parameters

- `Name` `(string: <required>)` - Specifies a name for the ACL auth method. The

>   name can only contain alphanumeric characters as well as `-` and `_` and must

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  name can contain alphanumeric characters, dashes `-`, and  underscores `_`.
```

Author: I think I said this earlier, but do you want me to just find all occurrences of this phrasing across all of the ACL docs and fix them on this branch?

>   be unique. This field is immutable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 This field is immutable and must be unique.
```
